class4/module1/lab01.rst, before:

Lab 1: Creating a SAML Service Provider(SP)
============================================
.. _class4-module1-lab1:
In this lab you will learn how to create and delete Access related objects.

Task 1 - Import Postman Collections
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

#. From the Jumpbox, open **Postman** via the desktop shortcut or toolbar at the bottom

    |image001|

#. Click **Yes** if prompted for "Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device?"

    |image002|

#. Click **Import** located on the top left of the Postman application

    |image003|

#.  Click **Upload Files** 

    |image004|

#. Navigate to C:\\access-labs\\class4\\module1\\student_files, select **student-class4-module1-lab1.postman_collection.json**, and click **Open**

    |image005|

#.  Click **Import**

    |image006|

#. A collection called **student-class4-module1-lab1** will appear on the left side in Postman


Task 2 - Import IDP Signing Certificate
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

#. Expand the **student-class4-module1-lab1** collection to see the subfolders and requests.

   |image007|

#. Select the **bigip-import-cert-idp** request.

#. Notice the request endpoint is **/mgmt/shared/file-transfer/uploads**.  This endpoint allows us to upload files to the /var/config/rest/downloads directory on the BIG-IP. 

    .. note:: If you unfamiliar with Postman the information in curly braces are variables that have been defined inside the collection.  If you wish the see the variable values simply click the three dots on the collection that allow you display more options. Click Edit and then Variables.

#. Click **Body** to display what will be passed in the POST request

   .. note:: The request contains only the PEM formated certificate of our AzureAD Identity Provider. 

    |image008|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#.  In the response body we see where the file is stored and its file name.  

    |image009|

#. Select the **bigip-install-cert-idp** request.

#. Examine the body of this request.  This request installs the certificate we previously uploaded to the BIG-IPs crypte store.

    |image010|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#. In the response body we a see certificate named **class4-module1-lab1-idp** has been installed to the crypto store.

    |image011|




Task 2 - Create an SAML IDP Connector 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to create an SP service the IDP Connector must exist.  This is because the SP Service endpoint contains the binding information to the IDP Connector.

#. Select the **bigip-create-idp connector-azuread** request

#. Notice the request endpoint is **/mgmt/tm/apm/aaa/saml-idp-connector/**. 

#. Click **Body** to display what will be passed in the POST request.  The body contains all the necessary setting in order to integrate with AzureAD.  

    |image012|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#. The response body contains all of the information related the connector and links to other endpoints that are related to this connectors configuration.

    |image013|


Task 3 - Create an SAML SP Service
-----------------------------------------------------------------------   

#. Select the **bigip-create-sp service-bigip**

#. Notice the request endpoint is **/mgmt/tm/apm/aaa/saml/**.

#. Click **Body** to display what will be passed in the POST request.  The body contains all the necessary setting for the SP service, plus a binding the IDP Connector we just created. 

    |image014|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#. The response body contains all of the information related the SP Service and links to other endpoints that are related to this SP Services configuration.

    |image015|

Task 4 - Explore configuration via the BIG-IP GUI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

#. Open a browser and naviage to https://bigip1.f5lab.local

#. Login to the BIG-IP GUI with the following credentials:
    - Username: **admin**
    - Password: **admin**

#. Navigate to System>>Certificate Management>>Traffic Certificate Management>>SSL Certificate List.  Click on SSL Certificate List and not the + plus symbol.

    |image016|

#. You can see the certificate **class4-module1-lab1-idp** that was imported in Task 1 is displayed.  

    |image017|

#. Navigate to Access>>Federatio>>SAML Service Provider>>Local SP Service.  Click on Local SP Services and not the+ plus symbol.

    |image018|

#. You can see an SP service object was created with the name class4-module1-lab1-sp and successfully binded to an IDP Connector named class4-module1-lab1-idp.

    |image019|

Task 5 - Deleting a SAML Service Provider(SP) Service Configuration
------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. _class4-module1-lab1-delete:

With imperative call objects must be deleted in the reverse order they are typically created in.  This is because objects that are currently in use cannot be deleted.  

#. From Postman, inside the collection Student-class4-module1-lab1 open the subfolder **Delete Objects**

#. Click **bigip-delete-sp service**

#. Notice the body is empty and the endpoint we are hitting is the same endpoint we used to create the SP service plus the partition and object name.

    |image020|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner. 

#. Notice nothing is returned in the response body but the Response code is a 200 OK.

    |image021|

#. If you click *Send a second time you will you get a message back stating the object is not found and a Status Code of 404.

    |image022|

#. Click **bigip-delete-idp connector**

#. Click the blue **send** button in the upper right corner.

    |image023|

#. You will receive a response code of 200 OK.

    |image024|

#. Click **bigip-delete-idp cert**

#. Click the blue **send** button in the upper right corner.

    |image025|

#. You will receive a response code of 200 OK.

    |image026|


Task 6 - Ensure objects were removed via GUI
-----------------------------------------------

#. Open a browser and navigate to https://bigip1.f5lab.local

#. Login to the BIG-IP GUI with the following credentials:
    - Username: **admin**
    - Password: **admin**

#. Navigate to System>>Certificate Management>>Traffic Certificate Management>>SSL Certificate List.  Click on SSL Certificate List and not the + plus symbol.

    |image016|

#.  Notice the certificate **class4-module1-lab1-idp** was deleted

    |image027|

#. Navigate to Access>>Federatio>>SAML Service Provider>>Local SP Service.  Click on Local SP Services and not the+ plus symbol.

    |image018|

#. Notice the SP Service was deleted

    |image028|

#. Mouse over SAML Service Provider on the top of the screen and click External IdP Connectors.

    |image029|

#. Notice the IDP Connector was deleted.

    |image030|

This concludes the APM lab on created and deleting APM objects via iControlREST.

    |image000|



.. |image000| image:: media/lab01/000.png
.. |image001| image:: media/lab01/001.png
.. |image002| image:: media/lab01/002.png
.. |image003| image:: media/lab01/003.png
.. |image004| image:: media/lab01/004.png
.. |image005| image:: media/lab01/005.png
.. |image006| image:: media/lab01/006.png
.. |image007| image:: media/lab01/007.png
.. |image008| image:: media/lab01/008.png
.. |image009| image:: media/lab01/009.png
.. |image010| image:: media/lab01/010.png
.. |image011| image:: media/lab01/011.png
.. |image012| image:: media/lab01/012.png
.. |image013| image:: media/lab01/013.png
.. |image014| image:: media/lab01/014.png
.. |image015| image:: media/lab01/015.png
.. |image016| image:: media/lab01/016.png
.. |image017| image:: media/lab01/017.png
.. |image018| image:: media/lab01/018.png
.. |image019| image:: media/lab01/019.png
.. |image020| image:: media/lab01/020.png
.. |image021| image:: media/lab01/021.png
.. |image022| image:: media/lab01/022.png
.. |image023| image:: media/lab01/023.png
.. |image024| image:: media/lab01/024.png
.. |image025| image:: media/lab01/025.png
.. |image026| image:: media/lab01/026.png
.. |image027| image:: media/lab01/027.png
.. |image028| image:: media/lab01/028.png
.. |image029| image:: media/lab01/029.png
.. |image030| image:: media/lab01/030.png

Commit message:

class1 module1 lab01 postman draft 2

class4/module1/lab01.rst, after:

Lab 1: Creating a SAML Service Provider(SP)
============================================
.. _class4-module1-lab1:
In this lab you will learn how to create and delete Access related objects.





Task 1 - Import Postman Collections
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

#. From the Jumpbox, open **Postman** via the desktop shortcut or toolbar at the bottom

     .. note::  Dismiss any prompts to update Postman.  

    |image001|

#. Click **Yes** if prompted for "Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device?"

    |image002|

#. Click **Import** located on the top left of the Postman application

    |image003|

#.  Click **Upload Files** 

    |image004|

#. Navigate to C:\\access-labs\\class4\\module1\\student_files, select **student-class4-module1-lab1.postman_collection.json**, and click **Open**

    |image005|

#.  Click **Import**

    |image006|

#. A collection called **student-class4-module1-lab1** will appear on the left side in Postman


Task 2 - Import IDP Signing Certificate
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

#. Expand the **student-class4-module1-lab1** collection to see the subfolders and requests.

   |image007|

#. Select the **bigip-import-cert-idp** request.

#. Notice the request endpoint is **/mgmt/shared/file-transfer/uploads**.  This endpoint allows us to upload files to the /var/config/rest/downloads directory on the BIG-IP. 

    .. note:: If you unfamiliar with Postman the information in curly braces are variables that have been defined inside the collection.  If you wish the see the variable values simply click the three dots on the collection that allow you display more options. Click Edit and then Variables.

#. Click **Body** to display what will be passed in the POST request

   .. note:: The request contains only the PEM formated certificate of our AzureAD Identity Provider. 

    |image008|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#.  In the response body we see where the file is stored and its file name.  

    |image009|

#. Select the **bigip-install-cert-idp** request.

#. Examine the body of this request.  This request installs the certificate we previously uploaded to the BIG-IPs crypte store.

    |image010|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#. In the response body we a see certificate named **class4-module1-lab1-idp** has been installed to the crypto store.

    |image011|




Task 2 - Create an SAML IDP Connector 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to create an SP service the IDP Connector must exist.  This is because the SP Service endpoint contains the binding information to the IDP Connector.

#. Select the **bigip-create-idp connector-azuread** request

#. Notice the request endpoint is **/mgmt/tm/apm/aaa/saml-idp-connector/**. 

#. Click **Body** to display what will be passed in the POST request.  The body contains all the necessary setting in order to integrate with AzureAD.  

    |image012|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#. The response body contains all of the information related the connector and links to other endpoints that are related to this connectors configuration.

    |image013|


Task 3 - Create an SAML SP Service
-----------------------------------------------------------------------   

#. Select the **bigip-create-sp service-bigip**

#. Notice the request endpoint is **/mgmt/tm/apm/aaa/saml/**.

#. Click **Body** to display what will be passed in the POST request.  The body contains all the necessary setting for the SP service, plus a binding the IDP Connector we just created. 

    |image014|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner

#. The response body contains all of the information related the SP Service and links to other endpoints that are related to this SP Services configuration.

    |image015|

Task 4 - Explore configuration via the BIG-IP GUI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

#. Open a browser and naviage to https://bigip1.f5lab.local

#. Login to the BIG-IP GUI with the following credentials:
    - Username: **admin**
    - Password: **admin**

#. Navigate to System >> Certificate Management >> Traffic Certificate Management >> SSL Certificate List.  Click on SSL Certificate List and not the + plus symbol.

    |image016|

#. You can see the certificate **class4-module1-lab1-idp** that was imported in Task 1 is displayed.  

    |image017|

#. Navigate to Access >> Federation >> SAML Service Provider >> Local SP Services.  Click on Local SP Services and not the + (plus symbol).

    |image018|

#. You can see an SP service object was created with the name class4-module1-lab1-sp and successfully binded to an IDP Connector named class4-module1-lab1-idp.

    |image019|

Task 5 - Deleting a SAML Service Provider(SP) Service Configuration
------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. _class4-module1-lab1-delete:

With imperative call objects must be deleted in the reverse order they are typically created in.  This is because objects that are currently in use cannot be deleted.  

#. From Postman, inside the collection Student-class4-module1-lab1 open the subfolder **Delete Objects**

#. Click **bigip-delete-sp service**

#. Notice the body is empty and the endpoint we are hitting is the same endpoint we used to create the SP service plus the partition and object name.

    |image020|

#. Click the blue **Send** button in the upper right corner. 

#. Notice nothing is returned in the response body but the Response code is a 200 OK.

    |image021|

#. If you click *Send a second time you will you get a message back stating the object is not found and a Status Code of 404.

    |image022|

#. Click **bigip-delete-idp connector**

#. Click the blue **send** button in the upper right corner.

    |image023|

#. You will receive a response code of 200 OK.

    |image024|

#. Click **bigip-delete-idp cert**

#. Click the blue **send** button in the upper right corner.

    |image025|

#. You will receive a response code of 200 OK.

    |image026|


Task 6 - Ensure objects were removed via GUI
-----------------------------------------------

#. Open a browser and navigate to https://bigip1.f5lab.local

#. Login to the BIG-IP GUI with the following credentials:
    - Username: **admin**
    - Password: **admin**

#. Navigate to System >> Certificate Management >> Traffic Certificate Management >> SSL Certificate List.  Click on SSL Certificate List and not the + plus symbol.

    |image016|

#.  Notice the certificate **class4-module1-lab1-idp** was deleted

    |image027|

#. Navigate to Access >> Federation >> SAML Service Provider >> Local SP Services.  Click on Local SP Services and not the+ plus symbol.

    |image018|

#. Notice the SP Service was deleted

    |image028|

#. Mouse over SAML Service Provider on the top of the screen and click External IdP Connectors.

    |image029|

#. Notice the IDP Connector was deleted.

    |image030|

This concludes the APM lab on created and deleting APM objects via iControlREST.

    |image000|



.. |image000| image:: media/lab01/000.png
.. |image001| image:: media/lab01/001.png
.. |image002| image:: media/lab01/002.png
.. |image003| image:: media/lab01/003.png
.. |image004| image:: media/lab01/004.png
.. |image005| image:: media/lab01/005.png
.. |image006| image:: media/lab01/006.png
.. |image007| image:: media/lab01/007.png
.. |image008| image:: media/lab01/008.png
.. |image009| image:: media/lab01/009.png
.. |image010| image:: media/lab01/010.png
.. |image011| image:: media/lab01/011.png
.. |image012| image:: media/lab01/012.png
.. |image013| image:: media/lab01/013.png
.. |image014| image:: media/lab01/014.png
.. |image015| image:: media/lab01/015.png
.. |image016| image:: media/lab01/016.png
.. |image017| image:: media/lab01/017.png
.. |image018| image:: media/lab01/018.png
.. |image019| image:: media/lab01/019.png
.. |image020| image:: media/lab01/020.png
.. |image021| image:: media/lab01/021.png
.. |image022| image:: media/lab01/022.png
.. |image023| image:: media/lab01/023.png
.. |image024| image:: media/lab01/024.png
.. |image025| image:: media/lab01/025.png
.. |image026| image:: media/lab01/026.png
.. |image027| image:: media/lab01/027.png
.. |image028| image:: media/lab01/028.png
.. |image029| image:: media/lab01/029.png
.. |image030| image:: media/lab01/030.png
